Hub filter doc (#18416)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/signalr/hub-filters.md

---
title: Use hub filters in SignalR for ASP.NET Core
author: brecon
description: Learn how to use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'
ms.author: brecon
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 05/22/2020
no-loc: [Blazor, "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: signalr/hub-filters
---

> # Use hub filters in SignalR for ASP.NET Core

Reviewer: Should hub be capitalized? cc @scottaddie

Reviewer 2: I don't think we use title case doc section headers. If we capitalize "hub" here, we'd need to update all our other SignalR docs that default to lower case "hub".

Reviewer 3: In this context, we're fine with lower case.

Hub filters allow logic to run before and after hub methods are invoked by clients. This article will provide guidance for writing and using hub filters.

## Configure hub filters

Hub filters can be applied globally or per hub type. When adding filters the order the filters are added is the order that the filters will run in. Also, global hub filters will run before local hub filters.

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSignalR(hubOptions =>
    {
        // Global filters will run first

>         hubOptions.AddFilter<CustomFilter>();

Reviewer: could we make the indentation consistent? maybe line it up?

>         hubOptions.AddFilter<CustomFilter>();

Reviewer: indenting seems weird here, like it'd be difficult to read. is there a way to line it up a bit better? I tried using the editor in the browser - not sure *what* to suggest but the sample looks a little off at first.

Reviewer 2: The indentation looks pretty standard to me.

    }

    // Optional method
    public Task OnDisconnectedAsync(HubLifetimeContext context, Exception exception, Func<HubLifetimeContext, Exception, Task> next)
    {
        return next(context, exception);
    }
}
```

Filters are very similar to middleware, `next` will invoke the next filter and the final filter will invoke the hub method. Filters can also store the result from awaiting `next` and run logic after the hub method has been called before returning the result from `next`.

If a filter wants to skip a hub method invocation we recommend throwing a `HubException` and not calling `next` so the client will receive an error if it was expecting a result.

## Using hub filters

When writing the filter logic, try to make it generic by using attributes on hub methods instead of checking for hub method names.

For example, lets write a filter that will synchronize all calls to a specific hub method so it can't be called in parallel.
For the purposes of this example we'll assume a `SynchronizeAttribute` class is defined.

First, place the attribute on the hub method that will be synchronized.
```csharp
public class ChatHub
{
    static int number;

>     [Synchronize]

Reviewer 4: wat

Author: :D please give me a better example

Reviewer: a profanity filter that ***'s out bad words in a filter list during chat. may as well stay with the uber-theme

---

> title: Use hub filters in SignalR for ASP.NET Core

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR
```

author: brecon
description: Learn how to use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'
ms.author: brecon
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 05/22/2020
no-loc: [Blazor, "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: signalr/hub-filters
---

> # Use hub filters in SignalR for ASP.NET Core

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR
```

> Hub filters allow logic to run before and after hub methods are invoked by clients. This article will provide guidance for writing and using hub filters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hub filters allow logic to run before and after hub methods are invoked by clients. This article provides guidance for writing and using hub filters.
```

## Configure hub filters

> Hub filters can be applied globally or per hub type. When adding filters the order the filters are added is the order that the filters will run in. Also, global hub filters will run before local hub filters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hub filters can be applied globally or per hub type. The order in which filters are added is the order in which the filters run. Global hub filters run before local hub filters.
```

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSignalR(hubOptions =>
    {
        // Global filters will run first
        hubOptions.AddFilter<CustomFilter>();

>     }).AddHubOptions<MyHub>(options =>

Reviewer 2: Any particular reason for using hubOptions above and options here?

Author: Copied from somewhere... but I'll change it

    {
        // Local filters will run second
        options.AddFilter<CustomFilter2>();
    });
}
```

> There are 3 ways to add hub filters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A hub filter can be added in one of the following ways:

```

> 1. Add a filter by concrete type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a filter by concrete type:
```

> ```csharp

Reviewer 3: You'll want to indent any code block that is to be visually associated with a list item.

hubOptions.AddFilter<TFilter>();
```

This will be resolved from DI or type activated.

> 2. Add a filter by runtime type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a filter by runtime type:
```

```csharp
hubOptions.AddFilter(typeof(TFilter));
```

This will be resolved from DI or type activated.

> 3. Add a filter by instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a filter by instance:
```

```csharp
hubOptions.AddFilter(new MyFilter());
```

> This instance will be used like a singleton, all hub method invocations will use the same instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This instance will be used like a singleton. All hub method invocations will use the same instance.
```

```csharp
public class CustomFilter : IHubFilter
{
    public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Calling hub method '{invocationContext.HubMethodName}'");
        try
        {
            return await next(invocationContext);
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"Exception calling '{invocationContext.HubMethodName}'");
            throw ex;
        }
    }

    // Optional method
    public Task OnConnectedAsync(HubLifetimeContext context, Func<HubLifetimeContext, Task> next)
    {
        return next(context);
    }

    // Optional method
    public Task OnDisconnectedAsync(HubLifetimeContext context, Exception exception, Func<HubLifetimeContext, Exception, Task> next)
    {
        return next(context, exception);
    }
}
```

> Filters are very similar to middleware, `next` will invoke the next filter and the final filter will invoke the hub method. Filters can also store the result from awaiting `next` and run logic after the hub method has been called before returning the result from `next`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Filters are very similar to middleware. The `next` method invokes the next filter. The final filter will invoke the hub method. Filters can also store the result from awaiting `next` and run logic after the hub method has been called before returning the result from `next`.
```

> If a filter wants to skip a hub method invocation we recommend throwing a `HubException` and not calling `next` so the client will receive an error if it was expecting a result.

Reviewer 3: I assume this is what you were trying to say. Please verify.

```suggestion
To skip a hub method invocation in a filter, throw an exception of type `HubException`. Don't call `next` because the client should receive an error if it was expecting a result.
```

Author: ```suggestion
To skip a hub method invocation in a filter, throw an exception of type `HubException` instead of calling `next`. The client will receive an error if it was expecting a result.
```

## Using hub filters

When writing the filter logic, try to make it generic by using attributes on hub methods instead of checking for hub method names.

> For example, lets write a filter that will check an argument to a hub method for banned phrases and replace any phrases it finds with "***".

Reviewer 3: The triple asterisk should be code-fenced to avoid confusion with Markdown formatting syntax.

> For example, lets write a filter that will check an argument to a hub method for banned phrases and replace any phrases it finds with "***".

Author: ```suggestion
For example, lets write a filter that will check an argument to a hub method for banned phrases and replace any phrases it finds with `"***"`.
```

> For the purposes of this example we'll assume a `LanguageFilterAttribute` class is defined and it has a property named `FilterArgument` that can be set when using the attribute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this example, we'll assume a `LanguageFilterAttribute` class is defined and it has a property named `FilterArgument` that can be set when using the attribute.
```

First, place the attribute on the hub method that has a string argument that we want to clean up.

> ```csharp

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```csharp
```

public class ChatHub
{
    [LanguageFilter(filterArgument: 0)]
    public async Task SendMessage(string message, string username)
    {
        await Clients.All.SendAsync("SendMessage", $"{username} says: {message}");
    }
}
```

Next, define a hub filter that will check for the attribute and replace banned phrases in an argument to the hub method with "***".

> ```csharp

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```csharp
```

public class LanguageFilter : IHubFilter
{
    // populated from a file or inline
    private List<string> bannedPhrases = new List<string>();

    public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)
    {
        var languageFilter = (LanguageFilterAttribute)Attribute.GetCustomAttribute(invocationContext.HubMethod, typeof(LanguageFilterAttribute));
        if (invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.Count > languageFilter.FilterArgument &&
            invocationContext.HubMethodArguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] is string str)
        {
            foreach (var bannedPhrase in bannedPhrases)
            {
                str = str.Replace(bannedPhrase, "***");
            }

>             if (invocationContext.HubMethodArguments is object[] arguments)

Reviewer 2: This is making me want to change HubMethodArguments back to `object[]`.

Reviewer 4: People should just create a new array and change it 😄 . But maybe we can just voliate all the rules and make it an object array

Reviewer 2: We should either switch HubMethodArguments back to `object[]` *or* only include the else branch in the sample. Making HubMethodArguments an `IReadOnlyList<object>` only to cast it to `object[]` in the docs is sending mixed messages.

            {
                arguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] = str;
            }
            else
            {
                arguments = invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.ToArray();
                arguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] = str;
                invocationContext = new HubInvocationContext(invocationContext.Context, invocationContext.ServiceProvider, invocationContext.Hub, invocationContext.HubMethod, arguments);
            }
        }

        return await next(invocationContext);
    }
}
```

> Finally, we need to register the hub filter. Because this filter relies on state outside of the normal hub method scope we need to register it as a singleton.

Reviewer 2: What state?

Author: The list of banned phrases

Reviewer 2: We should make that more explicit.

```suggestion
Finally, we need to register the hub filter. To avoid reinitializing the banned phrases list for every invocation, we register the hub filter as a singleton.
```

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSignalR(hubOptions =>
    {
        hubOptions.AddFilter<LanguageFilter>();
    });

    services.AddSingleton<LanguageFilter>();
}
```

## The HubInvocationContext object

The `HubInvocationContext` contains information for the current hub method invocation.

| Property | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `Context ` | The `HubCallerContext` contains information about the connection. |
| `Hub` | The instance of the Hub being used for this hub method invocation. |
| `HubMethodName` | The name of the hub method being invoked. |
| `HubMethodArguments` | The list of arguments being passed to the hub method. |
| `ServiceProvider` | The scoped service provider for this hub method invocation. |

> | `HubMethod` | The hub method information. |

Reviewer 2: Can we include the types of all the properties?

---
title: Use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR
author: brecon
description: Learn how to use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR.

> monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'

Reviewer 3: Is this a new feature in 5.0?

Author: Yes

ms.author: brecon
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 05/22/2020
no-loc: [Blazor, "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: signalr/hub-filters
---

# Use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR

> Hub filters allow logic to run before and after hub methods are invoked by clients. This article provides guidance for writing and using hub filters.

Reviewer 3: Adding a callout that this is a 5.0+ feature.

```suggestion
Hub filters:

* Are available in ASP.NET Core 5.0 or later.
* Allow logic to run before and after hub methods are invoked by clients.

This article provides guidance for writing and using hub filters.
```

Author: Do we normally do that? I thought that was the main purpose of the version filter drop down

Reviewer 3: It's something I've started doing so that it's very clear to customers (and to my team, for that matter) when a feature was introduced. Without such verbiage, customers have to toggle between different versions of the doc to figure it out.

## Configure hub filters

Hub filters can be applied globally or per hub type. The order in which filters are added is the order in which the filters run. Global hub filters run before local hub filters.

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSignalR(options =>
    {
        // Global filters will run first
        options.AddFilter<CustomFilter>();
    }).AddHubOptions<MyHub>(options =>
    {
        // Local filters will run second
        options.AddFilter<CustomFilter2>();
    });
}
```

A hub filter can be added in one of the following ways:

* Add a filter by concrete type:

> ```csharp
> hubOptions.AddFilter<TFilter>();
> ```
> 
> This will be resolved from DI or type activated.
> 
> * Add a filter by runtime type:
> 
> ```csharp
> hubOptions.AddFilter(typeof(TFilter));
> ```
> 
> This will be resolved from DI or type activated.
> 
> * Add a filter by instance:
> 
> ```csharp
> hubOptions.AddFilter(new MyFilter());
> ```
> 
> This instance will be used like a singleton. All hub method invocations will use the same instance.

Author: ```suggestion
    ```csharp
    hubOptions.AddFilter<TFilter>();
    ```

    This will be resolved from DI or type activated.

* Add a filter by runtime type:

    ```csharp
    hubOptions.AddFilter(typeof(TFilter));
    ```

    This will be resolved from DI or type activated.

* Add a filter by instance:

    ```csharp
    hubOptions.AddFilter(new MyFilter());
    ```

    This instance will be used like a singleton. All hub method invocations will use the same instance.
```

Hub filters are created and disposed per hub invocation. If you want to store global state in the filter, or no state, then we recommend adding the hub filter type to DI as a singleton for better performance or add the filter as an instance if you can.

## Create hub filters

> Create a filter by declaring a class that inherits from `IHubFilter`, and add the `InvokeMethodAsync` method. There is also `OnConnectedAsync` and `OnDisconnectedAsync` that can optionally be implemented to wrap the `OnConnectedAsync` and `OnDisconnectedAsync` hub methods respectively.

Reviewer 2: Can you remind me why we didn't make InvokeMethodAsync optional too?

Author: I think it's because a majority of people who are writing a filter will implement this method whereas the other two are less likely.

Reviewer 2: I don't see the harm in making everything optional. It seems more consistent.

    {
        Console.WriteLine($"Calling hub method '{invocationContext.HubMethodName}'");
        try
        {
            return await next(invocationContext);
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"Exception calling '{invocationContext.HubMethodName}'");
            throw ex;
        }
    }

    // Optional method
    public Task OnConnectedAsync(HubLifetimeContext context, Func<HubLifetimeContext, Task> next)
    {
        return next(context);
    }

    // Optional method
    public Task OnDisconnectedAsync(HubLifetimeContext context, Exception exception, Func<HubLifetimeContext, Exception, Task> next)
    {
        return next(context, exception);
    }
}
```

Filters are very similar to middleware. The `next` method invokes the next filter. The final filter will invoke the hub method. Filters can also store the result from awaiting `next` and run logic after the hub method has been called before returning the result from `next`.

To skip a hub method invocation in a filter, throw an exception of type `HubException` instead of calling `next`. The client will receive an error if it was expecting a result.

> ## Using hub filters

Reviewer 3: Per the style guide, avoid using gerunds in headings.

```suggestion
## Use hub filters
```

```csharp
public class LanguageFilter : IHubFilter
{
    // populated from a file or inline
    private List<string> bannedPhrases = new List<string> { "async void", ".Result" };

    public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)
    {
        var languageFilter = (LanguageFilterAttribute)Attribute.GetCustomAttribute(invocationContext.HubMethod, typeof(LanguageFilterAttribute));
        if (invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.Count > languageFilter.FilterArgument &&
            invocationContext.HubMethodArguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] is string str)
        {
            foreach (var bannedPhrase in bannedPhrases)
            {
                str = str.Replace(bannedPhrase, "***");
            }
            if (invocationContext.HubMethodArguments is object[] arguments)
            {
                arguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] = str;
            }
            else
            {
                arguments = invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.ToArray();
                arguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] = str;

>                 invocationContext = new HubInvocationContext(invocationContext.Context, invocationContext.ServiceProvider, invocationContext.Hub, invocationContext.HubMethod, arguments);

Reviewer 2: Maybe put each argument on its own line here to avoid horizontal scrolling.

            }
        }

        return await next(invocationContext);
    }
}
```

Finally, we need to register the hub filter. To avoid reinitializing the banned phrases list for every invocation, we register the hub filter as a singleton.

> ```csharp

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```csharp
```

| Property | Description | Type |
| ------ | ------ | ----------- |
| `Context ` | The `HubCallerContext` contains information about the connection. | `HubCallerContext` |
| `Hub` | The instance of the Hub being used for this hub method invocation. | `Hub` |
| `HubMethodName` | The name of the hub method being invoked. | `string` |
| `HubMethodArguments` | The list of arguments being passed to the hub method. | `IReadOnlyList<string>` |
| `ServiceProvider` | The scoped service provider for this hub method invocation. | `IServiceProvider` |
| `HubMethod` | The hub method information. | `MethodInfo` |

## The HubLifetimeContext object

The `HubLifetimeContext` contains information for the `OnConnectedAsync` and `OnDisconnectedAsync` hub methods.

| Property | Description | Type |
| ------ | ------ | ----------- |
| `Context ` | The `HubCallerContext` contains information about the connection. | `HubCallerContext` |
| `Hub` | The instance of the Hub being used for this hub method invocation. | `Hub` |
| `ServiceProvider` | The scoped service provider for this hub method invocation. | `IServiceProvider` |

## Authorization and filters

> [Authorize attributes on hub methods](xref:signalr/authn-and-authz#use-authorization-handlers-to-customize-hub-method-authorization) run before hub filters.

Author: Any suggestions for this section? It is info we'd like to include but it feels odd having it at the end and such a small section.

Reviewer 2: I think this is fine.

Reviewer 3: I also think it's fine.

description: Learn how to use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'
ms.author: brecon
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 05/22/2020
no-loc: [Blazor, "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: signalr/hub-filters
---

# Use hub filters in ASP.NET Core SignalR

Hub filters:

* Are available in ASP.NET Core 5.0 or later.
* Allow logic to run before and after hub methods are invoked by clients.

This article provides guidance for writing and using hub filters.

## Configure hub filters

Hub filters can be applied globally or per hub type. The order in which filters are added is the order in which the filters run. Global hub filters run before local hub filters.

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSignalR(options =>
    {
        // Global filters will run first
        options.AddFilter<CustomFilter>();
    }).AddHubOptions<MyHub>(options =>
    {
        // Local filters will run second
        options.AddFilter<CustomFilter2>();
    });
}
```

A hub filter can be added in one of the following ways:

* Add a filter by concrete type:

    ```csharp
    hubOptions.AddFilter<TFilter>();
    ```

>     This will be resolved from DI or type activated.

Reviewer 3: Define DI the first time it's referenced in the doc.

```suggestion
    This will be resolved from dependency injection (DI) or type activated.
```

* Add a filter by runtime type:

    ```csharp
    hubOptions.AddFilter(typeof(TFilter));
    ```

    This will be resolved from DI or type activated.

* Add a filter by instance:

    ```csharp
    hubOptions.AddFilter(new MyFilter());
    ```

    This instance will be used like a singleton. All hub method invocations will use the same instance.

> Hub filters are created and disposed per hub invocation. If you want to store global state in the filter, or no state, then we recommend adding the hub filter type to DI as a singleton for better performance or add the filter as an instance if you can.

Reviewer 3: Breaking up that last sentence to improve machine translation quality.

```suggestion
Hub filters are created and disposed per hub invocation. If you want to store global state in the filter, or no state, add the hub filter type to DI as a singleton for better performance. Alternatively, add the filter as an instance if you can.
```

## Use hub filters

When writing the filter logic, try to make it generic by using attributes on hub methods instead of checking for hub method names.

Consider a filter that will check a hub method argument for banned phrases and replace any phrases it finds with `***`.
For this example, assume a `LanguageFilterAttribute` class is defined. The class has a property named `FilterArgument` that can be set when using the attribute.

1. Place the attribute on the hub method that has a string argument to be cleaned:

    ```csharp
    public class ChatHub
    {
        [LanguageFilter(filterArgument: 0)]
        public async Task SendMessage(string message, string username)
        {
            await Clients.All.SendAsync("SendMessage", $"{username} says: {message}");
        }
    }
    ```

1. Define a hub filter to check for the attribute and replace banned phrases in a hub method argument with `***`:

    ```csharp
    public class LanguageFilter : IHubFilter
    {
        // populated from a file or inline
        private List<string> bannedPhrases = new List<string> { "async void", ".Result" };

>         public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)

Reviewer 3: Move the method parameters to the next line to prevent horizontal scrolling in the sample.

>         public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)

Author: ```suggestion
        public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, 
            Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)
```

        {

>             var languageFilter = (LanguageFilterAttribute)Attribute.GetCustomAttribute(invocationContext.HubMethod, typeof(LanguageFilterAttribute));

Reviewer 3: Move a portion of this line to the next line to prevent horizontal scrolling.

>             var languageFilter = (LanguageFilterAttribute)Attribute.GetCustomAttribute(invocationContext.HubMethod, typeof(LanguageFilterAttribute));

Author: ```suggestion
            var languageFilter = (LanguageFilterAttribute)Attribute.GetCustomAttribute(
                invocationContext.HubMethod, typeof(LanguageFilterAttribute));
```

            if (languageFilter != null &&
                invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.Count > languageFilter.FilterArgument &&
                invocationContext.HubMethodArguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] is string str)
            {
                foreach (var bannedPhrase in bannedPhrases)
                {
                    str = str.Replace(bannedPhrase, "***");
                }

                arguments = invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.ToArray();
                arguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] = str;
                invocationContext = new HubInvocationContext(invocationContext.Context,
                    invocationContext.ServiceProvider,
                    invocationContext.Hub,
                    invocationContext.HubMethod,
                    arguments);
            }

            return await next(invocationContext);
        }
    }
    ```

> 1. Register the hub filter. To avoid reinitializing the banned phrases list for every invocation, the hub filter is registered as a singleton:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Register the hub filter in the `Startup.ConfigureServices` method. To avoid reinitializing the banned phrases list for every invocation, the hub filter is registered as a singleton:
```

    public async ValueTask<object> InvokeMethodAsync(HubInvocationContext invocationContext, Func<HubInvocationContext, ValueTask<object>> next)
    {
        var languageFilter = (LanguageFilterAttribute)Attribute.GetCustomAttribute(invocationContext.HubMethod, typeof(LanguageFilterAttribute));
        if (invocationContext.HubMethodArguments.Count > languageFilter.FilterArgument &&
            invocationContext.HubMethodArguments[languageFilter.FilterArgument] is string str)
        {
            foreach (var bannedPhrase in bannedPhrases)
            {

>                 str = str.Replace(bannedPhrase, "***");

Reviewer: 👍

Reviewer 2: The example doesn't work. I think we need to put some bannedPhrases in there :wink:. We could include phrases like "async void" and ".Result" 😄 

I liked the Synchronize example, but I agree this is better.

Author: That's what the comment about "populate this from a file" is for.

Reviewer 2: I know that, but can't we have a bit of fun?

Reviewer 4: We should do validation, it's pretty common. DataAnnoations based filter 😄

Author: You just don't like being censored!

Reviewer: We could definitely use this in JabbR2.0. the banned list should just be really short.
